┌──────────────────────────────────╥────────────────────────────┐
│ ~indexicl                        ║ UP: <                      │
│ indexicality as communicative    ║ NEXT: open                 │
│ alternative to representation    ║ <outline.hyp -             │
└──────────────────────────────────╨────────────────────────────┘
--from Gumperz' intro to Hymes and Gumperz, Eds, Foundations in
Sociolinguistics_, pp22-23

INDEXICALITY
--raised Gumperz as altertnative to Bernstein's language deficit
hyp.
see Garfinkel, cp 10 of the Gumperz and Hymes book for more on
this topic, as well as (Cicourel 1968) in bib to the volume.
says Gumperz:
"indexicality refers to the fact that the interpretation of
communicative acts always without exception depends upon the
speakers [sic] background knowledge.  For this reason the spoken
message is always an imperfect realization of what was in the
minds of the speakers and hearers."  --elab. code is carried in
words, restricted codes carry more indexing to extralinguistic
conterxt

This notion of indexicality addresses a major problem in
communicative models--that of less-than-ideal communication. 
Communication models take a Shannon Weaver model approach to
communications {<inc> bring on Shannon weaver model} of linear,
unambiguous communicative content pioped through filters,
distorion and so forth and arriving at a destination as "less
than" the ideal of perfect communication.  Indexicality provides
a better approach, but the result is deterministic and closed--no
knew ideas or meanings could be expressed or understood in this
model.  That is why I think a representation model with
communication as its byproduct (and perhaps as its intent)
handles the situation better {<inc> jump to rep.}
